# Discrete-Event-Simulation-of-Agricultural-Inventory-Managment-System-Project
The Inventory Management System is a system that buys ingredients, stores excess ingredients, and creates cattle and chicken feed. The three ingredients that create cattle and chicken feed are corn, lime, and fish meal. There are subtle differences in the makeup of cattle and chicken feed, however all three products are used in both feeds. The system is an s-S inventory management model. This means that when a specific product is below a threshold, an order for that product will be processed. The suppliers have an order sheet detailing the cost of different size ingredient purchasing options and if the option has the ability to be shipped overnight or must be shipped in the standard 3-5 days time. The raw material costs are copied in the planning section, see Table 2. If the Inventory Management System has left over ingredients then they must be stored. Raw ingredients are stored in a manner that allows for one thousand pounds of ingredients to be stored in a twelve square foot block. The payments for storage space are one dollar and eight cents per square foot with an additional cost of fourteen to twenty cents per square foot in utility/overhead cost. 

The system does not have defined inventory evaluation conditions or feed prices and is, firstly, in need of assessment. After assessment, the company must improve the system to maximize profits. This is where the team can provide incredible insight via simulation. In order to assess performance, the easiest process is to experiment with the actual system - however this Inventory Management system current has no success settings. This would mean that all experiments would be blind and could only be evaluated after enough data is accrued. This would be very detrimental to the business. If an experiment were to go awry, customers would no longer buy from the company and the business would take a very large financial hit. Since experimenting with the actual system is not an option, the next step would be to experiment with a mathematical model. Since there are multiple undefined variables, the process of analytically defining a solution would be very tedious. Finding an analytical model might prove successful with one set of variables and price points, but would not lend itself to the ability to pivot on variable values without having to recalculate final solutions. \

The best route to finding optimal settings for the Inventory Management System is simulation. Simulation has the ability to pivot on variable values and quickly recalculate immediate impact and impact on future orders. In addition, the ability to simulate a “regular” week based on historic distributions as well as the ability to simulate light or heavy order weeks would provide immense value to the company. 

In order to provide a concrete solution, the team will be designing an inventory system to maximize profit for the system. The goal is to set two prices, P1 and P2, for the price of cattle and chicken feed, respectively, that would routinely net the company profit. The price cannot exceed a markup of 45% from the breakeven price for a pound of feed (calculated from the per pound cost from Table 2). This will eliminate the ability to charge an unrealistic amount for the product to offset a poorly planned business model. The solution will be achieved by defining when the company checks inventory, conditions for purchasing more inventory, price to charge per pound of feed, process of handling back-orders, and the monthly square feet of storage
